---
{
	"author": "Jim Anderson",
	"date": "2021-11-25",
	"draft": "false",
	"title": "Streaming Computer Purchased",
	"hours": "0",
	"categories": [
		"computer",
		"twitch"
	],
	"tags": [
		"computer",
		"hardware",
		"streaming",
		"twitch"
	]
}
---

I am buying a computer for a purpose I never envisioned: live streaming. I
planned on recording the build process for my records, but plans change.

<!--more-->

I created my Twitch account on 27 March 2018, and since then I have spent many
hours consuming content, so when it came time to purchase my own streaming
computer, I should have had unlimited resources and knowledge, right? Well, not
exactly. Nobody I watched really did anything close to what I wanted; the
majority were gamers. I only needed a computer that would take a 1080p video
source, add a couple overlays, add some audio, and ship it off to the internet.
In addition to that, it would be in my garage turned on 24/7 while I was
building and painting an airplane; what kind of computer could do that? I
finally decided that I didn't need a video card necessarily, and that I would
record at the same resolution I streamed at, so I wouldn't be encoding
everything twice. Peripherals? Well, those were a bit easier because after
consuming thousands of hours of content, I knew what I liked; the same went for
software.

Knowing that the stream would be 1080p, I wanted a decent, nice, but also
inexpensive 1080p monitor. I did a lot of research and finally decided that a
BenQ GW2780 27" Backlit LED IPS Monitor would be perfect. I have never owned a
BenQ monitor, but the specifications and reviews were great.

At a previous job we had Intel NUC computers mounted on the wall near
televisions to display dashboards for important things. The BenQ GW2780 has a
VESA mount on the back. I bet I could find one with a decent enough CPU to
stream, but that wasn't prohibitively expensive (hah, I'm building a plane and
worried about the cost of a computer). The NUC 10 BXNUC10i7FNKN1 has a Intel
Core i7-10710U CPU which is 4.7 GHz, 6 cores, and 12 threads. That should be
plenty. In addition it can support 64 GB of RAM and has an M.2 slot. Video out
is an HDMI 2.0b and there are 4 USB 3 ports (3x USB-A and 1x USB-C). The
computer itself is 4.5 inches by 4.5 inches by 2 inches -- nice and small.

Now that I had a monitor and a computer, it was time to add a hard drive and
RAM. Unfortunately it only takes laptop RAM so it was more expensive, I ended
up with two sticks of Kingston 8GB DDR4. An M.2 hard drive was another thing I
had never purchased yet, but they were fairly simple. I only needed probably
100GB but it never hurts to have some extra, a WD BLACK SN850 NVMe M.2 2280
500GB and I was set.

For a keyboard and mouse I finally wanted wireless; being in the garage the
ability to walk around was going to be important. Logitech has always been good
to me and they had a new wireless keyboard and mouse set that looked
interesting: MX Keys Mini and MX Anywhere 3. With two devices already on
Bluetooth and a headset still on the list, I wanted a nice USB Bluetooth dongle
so everything didn't run off its own wireless one or the internal Bluetooth
chip. A Maxuni USB Mini Bluetooth 5.0 Dongle went to the front USB port.

I could have gone with a lavalier microphone, but I wasn't a fan of having a
wire hanging around to get caught on something or wound up in a power tool.
There was also the option of a headset, but after gaming and work from home for
a few years, I have found that the audio quality isn't fantastic, and I tend to
whack the microphone on things all the time. Headset and microphone it was, and
probably a decent camera. The headphones needed to be comfortable for 1,000+
hours, have good audio, decently long battery life, and that was about it. The
Sony WH-1000XM4 fit the requirements really well; even though the price was a
bit expensive, reviews were so overwhelmingly positive it wasn't really a hard
decision. Knowing so many live streamers really helped with the microphone and
camera choice. Elgato has incredible products and they are reasonably priced. I
got lucky and they announced their first camera right before I went to purchase
gear. A Wave:3 microphone and Facecam rounded out the setup nicely.

Naturally there are a few miscellaneous items that need purchased when building
a new computer, and this one was no different. I had 3 USB-A ports and I now had
four items to plug in, with three more that needed plugged in occasionally to be
charged. A pair of Tripp Lite 4-Port Powered USB hubs expanded my capabilities
beautifully. The other necessity was being able to move the camera and
microphone around the garage. Three 10 foot USB-A extension cables would let me
move things almost without restriction in a 20 foot by 20 foot garage. Unless I
wanted the camera and microphone to be sitting on the ground, they needed
tripods, and Manfrotto delivered with a perfect pair; I couldn't have asked for
better. The last thing on the list was an Elgato Stream Deck. This would allow
me to better control the computer and the live streaming software from the other
side of the garage without having to go through the hassle of using a mouse or
keyboard.

I had originally bought a pair of Elgato Wave Arms to mount the Facecam and
Wave:3 and they were incredible. Unfortunately with the way my worktables were
designed and built, the mounting clamps were not large enough and they ended up
replaced with the Manfrotto tripods. I have absolutely nothing bad to say about
the Wave Arms, they just weren't for me.


Computer:
- PC: Intel NUC 10 BXNUC10i7FNKN1 Mini
- RAM: Kingston 8GB DDR4 2666 NONECC KVR26S19S6/8 (x2)
- SSD: WD BLACK SN850 NVMe M.2 2280 500GB WDS500G1X0E
- Monitor: BenQ GW2780 27" Backlit LED IPS Monitor
- Bluetooth: Maxuni USB Mini Bluetooth 5.0 Dongle

Peripherals:
- Headphones: Sony WH-1000XM4
- Keyboard: MX Keys Mini - Black (920-010475)
- Mouse: MX Anywhere 3 (910-005987)
- Camera: Elgato Facecam
- Microphone: Elgato Wave:3
- Elgato Stream Deck MK.2

Extras:
- USB Hub: Tripp Lite U360-004-R USB 3.0 SuperSpeed 4-Port Hub (x2)
- USB Cable: Cable Matters Long USB to USB Extension Cable 10 ft (x3)
- ~~Elgato Wave Mic Arm (x2)~~
- Manfrotto Compact Action Aluminum Tripod (x2)
